# Berkeley Nucleonics Corp. 575 Series Pulse Generator
[Manual](https://www.berkeleynucleonics.com/sites/default/files/products/resources/575_manual.pdf)
[General Info](https://www.berkeleynucleonics.com/Model-575)

This device outputs digital or analog pulses on its outputs. The Pulse Concepts and Pulse Generator Operations 
contains two important parts:
1. System Timer Functions: Once started T0 pulses are generated continiously in CONTINIOUS mode. 
2. Channel Timer Functions: Delayed pulse generator, where the start pulse for each channel is provided by the internal
T0 pulse generated by the Internal System Timer. In NORMAL mode a pulse is generated for each T0 pulse. 
In BURST mode a pusle is generated for each T0 pulse **n** times and then the output channels are blocked. 

### **Setting Pulse Timing Parameters**

Pulses are defined by a delay, from their sync or start pulse to the active edge, and a width.
* Wid: Sets the width of the active portion of the pulse.
* Dly: Sets the delay from the sync source to the start of the pulse.

NOTE: If Wid + Dly + 75 ns (hardware reset time) > T0 Period, the correct pulse
width will be generated but at a slower rate

### Setting System Internal Rate Parameters

The internal T0 period controls the fundamental output frequency of the system.
Each channel may operate at submultiples of the fundamental frequency using
their duty cycle mode.
* Source: Sets the reference source for the internal T Period.
* Per: Sets the internal T Period.

## Personal Computer to Pulse Generator Communication
The 575 ships standard with an RS232 serial and USB interface. 

After USB driver installation system creates virtual COM port 
(as the device is connected through regular serial port, e.g. RS232). 
Both device and PC should be set on the same baud rate, by default 38400 B/s. 
If baud rate on device is needed to be changed, use SCPI command: 
`:SYSTem:COMMunicate:SERial:USB 38400`.
Access to the USB port baud rate is done using the SCPI
command: `“:SYSTem:COMMunicate:SERial:USB <baud rate>`

## Quick Start - Normal Internal Rate Generator Operation
Starting from the default settings, which can be restored by recalling configuration 0, the
following parameters need to be set:
- Pulse Width, Delay for each channel
- T0 Period 
- Start\Stop


## Programming Command Types and Format

IEEE 488.2 Common Commands: System-wide device functions (starts with *)
SCPI Commands: Control of device parameters and modes (starts with :)


Signal type on input: 

Singal type on output: We can combine few timers to one outputs through MUX.
    
TTL/CMOS — стандартные логические уровни (0 и 5 В).
Adjustable — можно задавать напряжение вручную.
Optical — оптический выход (если есть).
Polarity (Pol) — сигнал "вверх" (обычно) или "вниз" (редко).

# From discussion
So, we "say" internal when it should start, defining frequencies, and the form (sine?), and delay?
There is no external input(trigger).
The Pulse generator is used for SWIFT procedure. For how long? -- ms. 